Project Title : Machine Learning for Finance
Prepared By : 21BCE194(HET PATEL), 21BCE210(NEMI PATEL)

From this project we are able to learn to use tools from the world of Finance, machine learning 
and deep learning essential for tackling all these pressing issues in the area of Fintech.

The project is divided into four distinct parts, each addressing specific aspects of the application.

Part 1: Data Preparation

In Part 1, we provide methods for reading financial data using the powerful pandas library.
We leverage pandas' functionality to efficiently load and manipulate datasets. Additionally, 
this section covers the application of various functions to preprocess the data, ensuring 
its suitability for training machine learning models.

libraries used:

import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sbn
plt.style.use('ggplot')
import talib
import requests, bs4

Part 2: Decision Trees and Random Forests

Part 2 delves into the implementation of decision trees and random forests, popular machine 
learning algorithms for classification and regression tasks. We provide detailed explanations 
and examples showcasing how to utilize these algorithms effectively for finance-related applications.

libraries used:

from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.tree import DecisionTreeRegressor
from sklearn.metrics import r2_score
from sklearn import tree
from xgboost import XGBRegressor
from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestRegressor


Part 3: Stock Prediction with Artificial Neural Networks (ANN)

Part 3 focuses on stock prediction using Artificial Neural Networks (ANN). ANN is a powerful technique 
for modeling complex relationships within financial data and has gained significant popularity in 
finance. This section demonstrates the implementation of ANNs in Python, enabling users to forecast 
stock prices and make informed investment decisions.

libraries used:

import pandas as pd
import warnings
warnings.filterwarnings('ignore')
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from tensorflow.keras.models import Sequential
from tensorflow.keras.layers import Dense, Dropout
from tensorflow.keras.optimizers import RMSprop
import os
from tensorflow.keras.utils import plot_model
import talos
from talos.model.hidden_layers import hidden_layers
from sklearn.utils import check_array
import random
random.seed(100)

Part 4: Visualizing Neurons using Playground TensorFlow

Part 4 introduces the usage of Playground TensorFlow, a web-based tool that allows for interactive 
visualization of neural networks. This section demonstrates how to leverage Playground TensorFlow to 
gain insights into the behavior and functioning of neural networks, specifically for finance-related 
applications.

Features of the Project:

1.Comprehensive exploration of machine learning techniques in finance using Python.
2.Step-by-step breakdown of data preparation, decision trees, random forests, stock prediction with 
  ANNs, and neuron visualization.
3.Utilization of popular libraries such as pandas, scikit-learn, and TensorFlow.
4.Clear code examples and explanations for each part of the project.
5.Structured learning path, building upon previous sections.
